README.md, before:

# MyStudiez - Android
**_Productivity and time management tool for students🚀_**
![logo](https://i.imgur.com/A7RwbgO.png)

## For students, by students.🎓
Before the project was made, I, like many other students around me,
had always forgotten *what my homeworks had been*, *where my classes had taken place* or *when they had begun*.
Creating a solution for these problems is my main motivation behind this project, as they have caused me a lot of trouble.
I decided to make this open source, this way everyone can contribute to it, everyone can request changes - and everyone could turn them into reality!\
As you've read it in the title: *For students, by students.*

## Tech used⚙
The entire application is built using **[Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)** and for the layouts, it uses **XML**.
Documentation can be found [here](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/basic-syntax.html)\
The application uses a **[SQLite3](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html)** database.
Docs are available [here](https://www.sqlite.org/docs.html)\
**[Click](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xhEoIiWYa9Y49B4lh1xcfVynXXvYynAw/view?usp=sharing)** to view the app's database schema.

## Code style👔
I don't use any special formatting, only the built-in code formatter by Android Studio. Before you commit anything, you must format your code.\
You can do that by pressing the following combinations:\
**Windows:** *`Ctrl`* + *`Alt`* + *`L`*\
**Linux:** *`Ctrl`* + *`Shift`* + *`Alt`* + *`L`*\
**macOS:** *`Option`* + *`Command`* + *`L`*

## Features💻
In the up-to-date version of the app *(0.3.4.2)* you can add your classes, lessons, tasks and upcoming exams to the app and if you want to, you'll be notified at a selected time before each task/exam.

## Contribution🏗
If you experience any problems with the software, please open a new issue!
New ideas are always welcomed!\
*Contribution guidline is on the wqy*

## Installation💿
I use **[Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)** for development.\
You need to have a physical android device or emulator running Android 6 (*M, Marshmallow, API Level 23*), which is the minimum api-level, or higher.
After you plugged in the physical device or started the emulator (*Note that if you have a physical device you must turn on Developer Options and USB Debugging*), you need to select the device which you want to run the application on and click run!

## How to use?📚
As you have already read it, you can add your classes, lessons, tasks and exams to this app. Using the bottom navigation drawer you'll find four menu points. Those will be **Overview**, **Subjects**, **Tasks**, and **Exams**.
You can easily add classes, tasks and exams by tapping the **_+_** button at the bottom of the screen. (*Note that you need to have at least 1 class added in order to add any tasks or exams*)

## License
MyStudiez is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

1.0.0 - Migrating to Firebase Realtime Database

README.md, after:

# MyStudiez - Android
**_Productivity and time management tool for students🚀_**
![logo](https://i.imgur.com/A7RwbgO.png)

## For students, by students.🎓
MyStudiez is a free, open-source android app developed to make students life easier.\
Students (and teachers too!) can easily digitalize their timetable. Users can add their classes, tasks and exams to the app.\
Furthermore, MyStudiez supports Google Sign-in, so users can synchronize their data across their devices.

## Tech used⚙
The entire application is written in Kotlin.\
Documentation can be found [here](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/basic-syntax.html)\
Using [Firebase Realtime Database](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database) makes it possible for users to synchronize their data.
Minimum API-level is set to 23, so contributors need to have either an emulator or a physical device running Android 6 or higher.

## Contribution🏗
If you experience any problems with the software, please open a new issue!
New ideas are always welcomed!\
*Contribution guideline is on the wqy*

## Installation💿
I recommend using **[Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)** for development.\
Fork the repository, download it to your machine and just open it in your preferred code editor!

### Supported devices
Contributors need to have a physical android device (In this case: Turn on `Developer options` and `USB debugging`) or emulator running Android 6 or higher.

### Firebase
In order to run this application you must have a Firebase project set up.\
If you are logged in to your Google account, you can easily add a new project in [Firebase Console](https://firebase.google.com/).
Once you've done that, you have to download **`google-services.json`** (In Firebase Console: Project Settings -> General -> Download latest config file) and put it under `Mystudiez\app\` (project-level dictionary), so the path to the file would look something like this: `MyStudiez\app\google-services.json`.
After that, you're ready to develop!
